---
layout: post
title: Magic
date: '2014-04-21T17:47:00+03:00'
tags: []
categories: []
---
I try to limit the amount of magic that I allow in my worldview, as too
much of it can cause confusion.

In my last article’s PS I mentioned that my articles sometimes have an
abrupt end. And then I remembered that I a couple of moths ago I’ve put
aside a book just about that “On writing well”; my reading list got too
long and I had to prioritize.

Now I was thinking to get it out of archive, and maybe I can find some
hints on how to improve my writing. And, it’s just a fine book that I
have enjoyed reading and I thought I’d enjoy some more.

I open the book at where I left it, and read chapter title: “Science and
Technology”. Hm… interesting: exactly what I was looking for! Isn’t it
magic? ;) Magic or not, I found a few things that resonated with me,
ones that I’d like to write down:


> Describing how a process works is valuable for two reasons. It forces
> you to make sure you know how it works.


I think at the basis of this idea is the same principle that makes the
Rubber duck debugging work.

Here are a few more. I will not comment on each of them because they’re
pretty clear by themselves.


> Imagine science writing as an upside-down pyramid. Start at the bottom
> with the one fact a reader must know before he can learn any more. The
> second sentence broadens what was stated first, making the pyramid
> wider, and the third sentence broadens the second, so that you can
> gradually move beyond fact into significance and speculation—how a new
> discovery alters what was known, what new avenues of research it might
> open, where the research might be applied. There’s no limit to how
> wide the pyramid can become, but your readers will understand the
> broad implications only if they start with one narrow fact.


…


> Another way to help your readers understand unfamiliar facts is to
> relate them to sights they are familiar with. Reduce the abstract
> principle to an image they can visualize.


…


> Another way of making science accessible is to write like a person and
> not like a scientist. It’s the same old question of being yourself.
> Just because you’re dealing with a scholarly discipline that’s usually
> reported in a style of dry pedantry is no reason why you shouldn’t
> write in good fresh English.


…


> Only through clear writing by experts can the rest of us make educated
> choices as citizens in these areas where we have little or no
> education.


This last one resonated pretty loud with me, and I cant mention at least
two big contexts where I see it applied.

One is when being with kids, and I find myself rising my voice to make
something happen, then I remember one nice little quote:


> Don’t raise your voice, improve your argument.


If I manage to remember it, I quickly calm down and smile. :-)

Then, another one is when, say at work, someone is proposing The Best
Solution™ for the problem at hand, but the rest of the world seem not to
get it, let alone agree with it. Then I remember this one:


> You do not really understand something unless you can explain it to
> your grandmother.


This eases the frustration and directs me to think about reformulating
my idea in a way that the ones that I try to convince will understand;
maybe.

I think in both these cases, the same idea is at the root. Any
conversation implies two factors: the listener and the speaker. If
they’re not aligned, the message will likely get lost. And as a speaker,
you only have control over how you package and delivering the message.
