---
layout: post
title: On blogging
date: '2014-04-09T19:48:00+03:00'
tags: [writing]
categories: []
---
One thing that I found interesting in the “Apprenticeship Patterns” book
is the emphasis it puts on blogging. It’s not that this surprised me, I
have heard about this many times, and I think I understand its benefits,
but one notable thing is that it gives ideas on what to write about, and
one good reason: to use it as a tool towards a better understanding for
yourself.

During last few years I have tried a few times to blog, but it never
stuck for more than a few sporadic articles on things that did matter to
me at each of those times. This time I want to try something different.

I usually spend my Saturdays in the office, to work on my things outside
of the day-job, for example on my side project. I want to take some of that
time to look at what happened during the week and pick of a subject to
write about.

This week I want to write about Mark Trostler’s presentation on testable
JS. I have shared it in my stream a couple of times during last couple
of years, and I’m watching it again now: this time taking notes and
trying to use those ideas in my side project.

Beside the “Clean Architecture” concept that I’m obsessing about last
couple of months, this week I have also ingested two more resources on
design patterns: OODesign.com and John Lindquist’s “PatternCraft”
youtube playlist. Just in case you didn’t know, I am mostly illiterate
on the mainstream OO pattern theory. I got to a moment where I see why
it’s good to understand them, and I am working on fixing that.

So, to return to that presentation I’ve mentioned, now I think I
understand more of it now, I like the concept, and I think this would be
a good subject to write about.

I have also found some really interesting thoughts in Robert C. Martin’s
“The Clean Coder” book that I’m reading now. Its subtitle is “A Code of
Conduct for Professional Programmers”, so it would make a good subject
to write about too.

OK, this sounds like a good plan. :)
